Task 4:

The forgotten password function is about to be enhanced so users cannot use the same password more than a configured value. They will also be able to enter a forgotten password prompt question/answer if they wish to add one to their account. What questions you would ask the business analyst to ensure requirements are met?


As a QA I would consider asking below questions:


Questions About Password History:


1. What is the configured value for the maximum number of previous passwords that cannot be reused?

2. Is there a time frame for which the password history should be considered e.g, last 6 months, last 10 passwords?

3. Are there any specific password complexity requirements e.g, length, special characters, upper/lowercase letters, numbers?

4. How will users be informed if they attempt to reuse a password that is not allowed?

5. Will there be any error messages provided to users if they choose a password that was previously used?


Questions About Forgotten Password Prompt:


6. What are the criteria for the forgotten password prompt questions? Are there predefined questions, or can users create their own?

7. Is there a minimum or maximum length for the question and answer?

8. Can users change their security question and answer after setting them? If so, what is the process?

9. What validations needed for the forgotten password prompt question and answer?

10. How the system will handle incorrect answers to the forgotten password prompt?

11. Is there a limit to the number of attempts a user can make to answer the forgotten password prompt? What happens after the limit is reached?


Questions About UI testing:


12. Where in the UI will the option to set or change the forgotten password prompt question and answer be located?

13. What are the pop-ups or error messages on UI while setting or updating their forgotten password prompt question and answer?


Questions About Testing:


14. What types of tests should be conducted to validate this enhancement (e.g., unit tests, integration tests)?

15. Are there any specific/important test cases or scenarios that need to be covered?

16. How will we verify that the password history check is working correctly?


